Add recommendation for Deployment when HPA is enabled (#29739)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale.md

to `false`) until you reactivate it by manually adjusting the target's desired
replica count or HPA's minimum replica count.

> ## Recommended Deployment Configuration

Author: ```suggestion
## Recommended Deployment configuration
```

Because `Deployment` is the proper name, I've chosen to leave it capitalized.  Let me know if this still is not preferred.

> ## Recommended Deployment configuration

Reviewer: Maybe this:
```suggestion
### Migrating Deployments and StatefulSets to horizontal autoscaling
```
would work better?

Author: Ooo, good call out, I had forgotten that stateful sets can now be managed via an HPA.  I wonder if they are subject to the same problem I'm attempting to document. :thinking:

Author: After quick testing, I don't believe we need to bring in the conversation about StatefulSets.  This object has a differing strategy when applying updates using all Kubernetes defaults.  How about something such as this instead?

```suggestion
### Migrating Deployments  to horizontal autoscaling
```

Reviewer: That could work. How come you don't also need to take special care with StatefulSets though? It might be that I don't clearly understand the shortcoming as it applies to the Deployment API.

Author: @sftim I've completed more testing.  We _should_ include StatefulSets.  My initial testing was using a slower image that took more time for the StatefulSet to roll through which did not show the behavior that this PR is attempting to address.  When using an image that is light, I still see the behavior.  So I'm going to use your original suggestion for this bit, and then I need to place similar documentation in the StatefulSet documentation as well.

> When an HPA is enabled, it is recommended that the value of `spec.replcas` of

Reviewer: When an HPA is enabled, it is recommended that the value of `spec.replicas` of

Author: ```suggestion
When an HPA is enabled, it is recommended that the value of `spec.replicas` of
```

the Deployment object is removed.  Without doing so, anytime a change to the
Deployment object is applied, example via `kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml`,
will instruct Kubernetes to scale the current number of Pods to the desired

> value retained in the `spec.replica` key.  This may not be desired and could be

Reviewer: value retained in the `spec.replicas` key.  This may not be desired and could be

Author: ```suggestion
value retained in the `spec.replicas` key. This may not be desired and could be
```

troublesome when an HPA is active.

> Keep in mind that the removal of `spec.replcas` will incur a one time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that the removal of `spec.replicas` will incur a one time
```
or something like this:
```markdown
If you unset the `.spec.replicas` field for an existing Deployment, and you
do this before you connect a HorizontalPodAutoscaler, then Kubernetes uses
the default replica count (1).

To convert an existing Deployment to use a HorizontalPodAutoscaler, first
add the HorizontalPodAutoscaler. Once the autoscaling is active, you can revise
any manifests, Helm charts, or other code that defines the Deployment, to
unset the `.spec.replicas` field.
```

> degradation of Pod counts as the default value of this key is 1 (reference

Reviewer 2: As @apelisse explains on the related issue, this degradation only occurs when using client-side apply. There is also a workaround that is probably worth mentioning in these docs, given the consequences of scaling down to 1 even temporarily for a production workload: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/25238#issuecomment-406415297.

Author: Ahh, so I thought this was a proposed fix from way back when for the issue at hand.  I've confirmed that solution does indeed work today.  I've also added a tidbit on serverside applying of files.  Because it's a flag that blocks the applying of a configuration I don't want to dive too much into the details of what should be done as this starts to stray away from the overall guide in general.

Let me know what you think!

Reviewer: I'm overall in favor of documenting the “how to turn on (horizontal) autoscaling for a workload” part - this page _is_ a task.

What's actually missing is a concept or reference page about autoscaling. Lots of what's in this existing page should move out of the task page towards that missing concept / reference page.

It's OK _not_ to do the big refactor (that's needed!) in **this** PR.

> [Deployment Replicas](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment.md#replicas).

Reviewer: This hyperlink is broken too.

Author: ```suggestion
[Deployment Replicas](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment#replicas).
```

to `false`) until you reactivate it by manually adjusting the target's desired
replica count or HPA's minimum replica count.

### Migrating Deployments and StatefulSets to horizontal autoscaling

When an HPA is enabled, it is recommended that the value of `spec.replicas` of

> the Deployment and/or Statefulset object is removed.  Without doing so, anytime

Reviewer: Removed from..?

- source code
- the API
?

We should clarify what removal we're advocating.

Author: Agreed:

```suggestion
the Deployment and/or Statefulset object is removed from your configuration file.  Without doing so, anytime
```

Reviewer: I'd tweak that for wording:
```suggestion
the Deployment and / or StatefulSet is removed from their
{{< glossary_tooltip text="manifest(s)" term_id="manifest" >}}.  Without doing so, any time
```

a change to that object is applied, example via `kubectl apply -f
deployment.yaml`, will instruct Kubernetes to scale the current number of Pods
to the desired value retained in the `spec.replicas` key. This may not be
desired and could be troublesome when an HPA is active.

Keep in mind that the removal of `spec.replicas` may incur a one time
degradation of Pod counts as the default value of this key is 1 (reference
[Deployment Replicas](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment#replicas).
Upon the update all Pods except 1 will begin their Termination procedures.  Any
deployment application afterwards will behave as normal and respect a Rolling

> Update configuration as desired.  We can avoid this degradation, there are two

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
Update configuration as desired.  You can avoid this degradation; there are two
```

> options:

Reviewer 2: These aren't freely interchangeable options--which to use depends on whether the user is currently using client-side or server-side apply to manage the object in question.

> - Manually edit the last applied API configuration following the following

Reviewer 2: Similarly to what you have in the other point, I think we should be more explicit that these instructions are specifically for people who are using client-side apply to manage the resource in question.

Author: @KnVerey do people know though?  While the option `server-side` defaults to false, those that utilize CI, or helm, or <insert other fun method of deploying> may have no idea how that system utilizes this capability.  I welcome a change to this language, but I'm not entirely sure what to state here without throwing so much information, persons reading this become overwhelmed and only question what they need to accomplish.  Also keeping in mind that this flag is relatively new as well.

Author: Perhaps something like:

```suggestion
- When not using [Server-Side Apply](/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/) (which applies to most usecases) Manually edit the last applied API configuration following the following
```

But I don't like how that looks/reads and now people need to figure out what that means before they can determine if they should follow these instructions :thinking:

Reviewer: You could use [tabs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/hugo-shortcodes/#tabs) with SSA as default, to let readers see advice matched to the apply strategy they're using.

Do you think that could help @jtslear?

Reviewer 2: I understand that some users might not know off hand which version they're using, but to avoid the degradation, they will need to find out to choose the appropriate mitigation. We could go into an explanation based on looking at the live object in question, but it might be easier for folks to look at their deploy pipeline than to read the metadata with `--show-managed-fields`. It seems to me that if you have `.metadata.annotations["kubectl.kubernetes.io/last-applied-configuration"]` and NOT `.metadata.managedFields`, then it's for sure client-side. But I can't think of a test that easy for server-side, notably because it keeps the old annotation in sync.

I like the tabs idea, but client-side should probably be the default since it's still the default in kubectl.

Author: @sftim I've added tabs, which really cleans this up, thanks for that pointer.

I'm still unsure of the best way to help people understand how to determine which deployment application method they are using without creating another large set of steps to be followed.  Having client side the default open tab, plus the comment indicating that this is the norm or default I think helps a bit.  Hopefully if persons are using SSA they'll know this as currently it requires people to know about said feature and explicitly utilize it.  (From my understanding of it thus far)

I welcome additional ideas on this, however.

   instructions:
  1. `kubectl apply edit-last-applied deployment/<deployment_name>`

>   2. In the editor, remove `spec.replicas`
>   3. In your configuration file, you can now remove `spec.replicas`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  2. In the editor, remove `spec.replicas`. When you save and exit the editor, `kubectl`
     applies the update.
  3. You can now remove `spec.replicas` from the manifest. If you use source code management,
     also commit your changes or take whatever other steps for revising the source code
     are appropriate for how you track updates.
```
?

  4. From here on out you can run `kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml`

> - Utilize the flag `--server-side` when running `kubectl apply` - This will

Reviewer 2: If they are using server-side apply, then they'll see a conflict once the HPA kicks in for the first time. Once they see a conflict, they can remove the replicas field without a problem. This behavior is nice because you'll never hit that scale-to-1 behavior: either there's no conflict yet and your old value takes, or there is a conflict, your apply is prevented, and it's safe to remove the field from your config. However, it's possible to avoid your main deploy pipeline hitting that conflict in the first place. There's already a guide for this, as it turns out: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/#transferring-ownership

Reviewer: :+1: for hyperlinking to https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/#transferring-ownership

to `false`) until you reactivate it by manually adjusting the target's desired
replica count or HPA's minimum replica count.

### Migrating Deployments and StatefulSets to horizontal autoscaling

When an HPA is enabled, it is recommended that the value of `spec.replicas` of

> the Deployment and / or StatefulSet is removed from their

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Deployment and / or StatefulSet be removed from their
```

> {{< glossary_tooltip text="manifest(s)" term_id="manifest" >}}.  Without doing so, any time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< glossary_tooltip text="manifest(s)" term_id="manifest" >}}.  If this isn't done, any time
```

> a change to that object is applied, example via `kubectl apply -f

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a change to that object is applied, for example via `kubectl apply -f
```

> deployment.yaml`, will instruct Kubernetes to scale the current number of Pods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
deployment.yaml`, this will instruct Kubernetes to scale the current number of Pods
```

> to the desired value retained in the `spec.replicas` key. This may not be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to the value of the `spec.replicas` key. This may not be
```

desired and could be troublesome when an HPA is active.

> Keep in mind that the removal of `spec.replicas` may incur a one time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keep in mind that the removal of `spec.replicas` may incur a one-time
```

degradation of Pod counts as the default value of this key is 1 (reference
[Deployment Replicas](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment#replicas).

> Upon the update all Pods except 1 will begin their Termination procedures.  Any

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upon the update, all Pods except 1 will begin their termination procedures.  Any
```

> deployment application afterwards will behave as normal and respect a Rolling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
deployment application afterwards will behave as normal and respect a rolling
```

> Update configuration as desired.  You can avoid this degradation; there are two

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
update configuration as desired.  You can avoid this degradation by choosing one of the following two
```

> methods of accomplishing, each depend on how you are modifying your deployments:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
methods based on how you are modifying your deployments:
```

{{< tabs name="fix_replicas_instructions" >}}
{{% tab name="Client Side Apply (this is the default)" %}}

1. `kubectl apply edit-last-applied deployment/<deployment_name>`
2. In the editor, remove `spec.replicas`. When you save and exit the editor, `kubectl`
    applies the update.  No changes to Pod counts happen at this step.
3. You can now remove `spec.replicas` from the manifest. If you use source code management,
    also commit your changes or take whatever other steps for revising the source code
    are appropriate for how you track updates.
4. From here on out you can run `kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml`

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Server Side Apply" %}}

When using the [Server-Side Apply](/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/)
you can follow the [transferring ownership](/docs/reference/using-api/server-side-apply/#transferring-ownership)

> guidelines which cover this exact use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
guidelines, which cover this exact use case.
```
